# February 11th

## *Research Through Design as a Method for Interaction Design Research in HCI*
by John Zimmerman, Jodi Forlizzi, Shelley Evenson


## *What do Prototypes Prototype?*
by Stephanie Houde and Charles Hill

Design is at the forefront of interacting with the Makey Makey. The maker must investigate the possibilities of what they wish to create by prototyping first. Without requiring a conscious recognition of the process, the Makey Makey facilitates research through design working rapidly with a variety of mediums and domain to precipitate an outcome in an underconstrained space. The development cycle happens in conjunction with the design cycle creating a feedback loop that enables research through design. Also, perhaps because of the simplicity of the system or the ease with which interfaces created with it can be discerned, the created interface is itself a vehicle for knowledge transferal surrounding design. At the same time, the framework that Zimmerman et al suggest for evaluation, the relevance of an object and whether or not it constitutes the right thing is less apparent with the Makey Makey. The idioms for development are limited and the larger purpose of the system is to encourage exploration and play. Within that context, users may seek out the "right thing" that matches their mental model but there is a delightful sense of discovery in creating something altogether unexpected with the Makey Makey too. Another way of analyzing this aspect of the system is to maybe suggest the framework surrounding research through design ought to include the opportunity or means to generate productive novel objects through incidental discovery. As a prototype, Makey Makey allows the user to quickly experiment with look and feel, implementation, and role of everyday or external objects as interfaces. That said, as mentioned above, the idiom which can be used (completing circuits) supports a limited set of interactions. As a prototyping tool, the Makey Makey excels in terms of the tradeoff between having an integrated prototype with limited investment of time and resources. Also, in addition to the look and feel of the final interface the Makey Makey highlights that the look and feel of a prototype may have more to do with how the user interacts with the system and the emotional response that the interaction elicits in the user that the look and feel of the result alone.
