# February 6th

## *Designing for Tinkerability. In Design Make Play: Growing the Next Generation of STEM Innovators*
by M. Resnick and E.O. Rosenbaum


While tinkerability is primarily discussed in a learning environment or makerspaces, it can also be an essential practice for expert level production. In many disciplines, lab manual style guidance can only get you so far and it will be difficult to produce anything original or novel without a deep understanding of the underlying system or medium. Tinkerability encapsulates experimentation and anyone who seeks to have an expert level understanding of a domain or to create something transformative needs to probe the boundaries of what's been done as well as develop a thorough understanding of pre-existing practices. And tinkering -- methodological trial and error, the process of building up from low level processes, and exploring new facets of a system or medium -- enables deep understanding. That said, there are several professional practices that come to mind where tinkerable systems are not feasible -- either the cost or risk is high or the practitioner needs to repeatedly conduct a systemic process without variation -- and require a high level of knowledge before beginning the task at hand. Consider how distant this process is from the concept of tinkerability compared to iterative process such as GV design sprints. In sum, tinkerability is one effective approach to deepening one's ability and understanding but the degree to which its applicable and available hinges on individual preference and the task at hand.
