# January 16th

## *Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas*
by Seymour Papert

_Foreword_

In his forward, Papert discusses the affective component of assimilating learning. His example, gears, resonated with me on a personal level because I had several positive formative experiences too including working with my elementary school robotics team, Girls Excited About Robotics = GEARS. In fact, I loved calculating gear ratios in my head. Like Papert discusses, the effects of this positive early exposure might be hard to gauge in a systematic way since they might drive outcomes several years down the line. While I agree that learning builds off mental models, I think it’s the role of the educator no matter what the scale is of any particular learning environment to help their students make connections by engaging different senses, metaphors, and ways of understanding the concept at hand. I appreciated his formulation of learning as “how intellectual structures grow out of one another and about how, in the process they acquire both logical and emotional form” (vii) and am curious to know if this has been unravelled to a greater degree. While Papert discusses a positive experience, I think the flip side is that negative emotional experiences in learning contexts stick. In particular, I think of the lack of diversity in certain fields that I attribute to culture and bad encounters and am reminded of the prevalent knee jerk reaction that a lot of people have when hearing about a STEM-based profession more mathematically demanding than theirs “wow, you must be so good at math. I could never do that.” So, yes we should encourage people to grow by loving and finding joy in discovery and learning but we should also be wary of not having them hate the process.


_Chapter 6_

The contrast between “school” math and physics versus real life math and physics deeply resonated with me. I had the privilege of being a part of an experimental section in my freshman physics course that was part of an effort to have students first and foremost develop and challenge their intuition. Unlike several other courses where I engaged in a pattern of memorize, problem solve, and rapidly forget, not only have the concepts largely stayed with me but also ways of probing and testing assumptions and my own and often flawed understanding of my knowledge and processes have helped me in other domains. Papert specifically discusses the computer as a vector for learning when used in the right way. That is, instead of contributing to the “cookbook problem” the computer can help students move away from “dissociated learning” (139).  However, I wonder why so many people find computer science or programming to be inaccessible even after guided exposure and are frustrated. While I think support and scaffolding to scope challengers are critical, for me the biggest takeaway is that this approach shouldn’t just apply to introductory material -- it’s a critical way to reframe learning at all levels.

>  First, the computer allows, or obliges, the child to externalize intuitive expectations. When the intuition is translated into a program it becomes more obtrusive and more accessible to reflection. Second, computational ideas can be taken up as materials for the work of remodeling intuitive knowledge (145) - Papert.  

> For the computerist the procedure and the ways it can go wrong are fully as interesting and as conceptual as anything else. Moreover, what went wrong, namely the bugs, are not seen as mistakes to be avoided like the plague, but as an intrinsic part of the learning process (155) - Papert.
