# January 14th

## *Designing as Reflective Conversation with the Materials of a Design Situation*
by Donald A. Schon

While I fully support Schon’s claim that AI systems might be most effective in improving workflow outcomes as human-centric design aids, I had trouble following the development of his argumentation through the examples given. His article seemed to emphasize the role and divergent thinking that different designers engage in to achieve a specific goal. For instance, he discusses George Vicker’s notion of appreciations or qualitative assessments that don’t require clearly articulated criteria as the basis of those decisions. He emphasizes designers leverage multiple ways of seeing and connecting possibilities. That is while there are some constraints given by the materials presented (for instance in the Modula + Lego experiment) the range of the problems that can be solved and the manner in which they can be addressed through the affordances apparent or otherwise of the medium are complex and deeply subjective. His conclusion stating what AI systems must achieve for phenomenological versus functional equivalence versus assistance was strongly resonant. Consider for example, the efficacy of photoshop with an AI backend that lowers barriers to entry and allows artists to concentrate their efforts on complex decisions as opposed to detailed manipulation. In other words, designers might be able to achieve in broad strokes and then refine results with an AI system capable of assisting them in identifying elements of their process and executing on tasks that may be more mechanical in nature. The Asus Precog is another example worth mentioning of a tool that relies on an AI backend or assistance. I think AI tools may help artists with more subjective decisions too (consider a design galleries approach that helps in assessing composition by sorting results via the ratio of positive to negative space).


## *The Conditions of Flow*
by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi

Csikzzentmihalyi’s ideation of flow as the outcome of preconditions and the state ideal for producing ingenuity should drive the development of creative technology. After describing four categories of games, agon, alea, ilinix and mimicry based on psychological anthropologist Roger Callois’ findings, the author claims every flow activity “provide[s] a sense of discovery, a creative feeling of transporting the person into a new reality” (74). Isn’t this the goal that should drive any creative media experience? I think it’s critical to strike a balance between presenting skills development tasks within the context of bite size challenges for maker using any given system. This balance also brings to mind the recommendations articulated by Carrie Cai and Philip Guo in “Software Developers Learning Machine Learning: Motivations, Hurdles, and Desires” where they specifically state that despite often having intrinsic motivation to start using machine learning most domain knowledgeable individuals experience frustration on account of a lack of scaffolding where they feel alternately out of their depth with respect to their mathematical background and bored by the limited extent of what they are able to achieve by just following toy examples. I also found the discussion of why flow may occur for certain individuals in different contexts such as being prisoners of war or having the right nurturing environment in their family background to be very productive. I think the argument can be summarized by the ability to find a way to invest energy and interest in something outside the self. This focus, in turn, leads to stability for the self and great personal growth and creative outcomes. So, in addition to assessing how to balance skills and challenges, flow can be augmented by encouraging autotelic patterns.
