# January 23rd

## *Social Creativity: Turning Barriers into Opportunities for Collaborative Design*
by Gerhard Fischer

Fischer defines four dimensions of social creativity: Spatial, Temporal, Conceptual Within Domains, Conceptual between Domains, and Technological. Thinking back to a collaborative experience you directly participated in, select one of these four dimensions and describe specific barriers or opportunities that you encountered in your personal experience.

During my undergrad, I was on the Student Advisory Board to the Princeton University Art Museum. During that time, one of our tasks was to coordinate an inspiration night. In the past, these events were typically centered on a faculty lecture or panel tied into one of the current exhibitions. Our board decided to move forward with a different idea. We wanted to create a more immersive experience that invited different groups and communities to help people connect their experiences and learn about others using photographs as a vantage point to launch an initial reflection. Our group reached out to every social justice and cultural group on campus and invited them to facilitate discussions in front of artworks of their choosing. There were many boundaries that had to be navigated but that also presented opportunities for the most creativity. We addressed spatial, temporal, and conceptual barriers by extensively relying on collaboration using shared folders and documents Google drive. In addition to collaborative spreadsheets detailing contacts, event details and timelines and responsibilities we also had documents that contained relevant information about each artwork selected. Asynchronous comments were used extensively and often people would sub out for a meeting at the last minute -- instead of needing to communicate directly -- we could just change the point of contact and ensure someone could be physically present to coordinate with the representative from any given student group. It was also helpful to have different facilitators and increase participation. Because we were able to effectively coalesce information and leverage a means to bring many people to the table across a diverse set of student groups, we were able to have an event with several small scale interactions that drew in a larger and more diverse crowd.
