# January 9th

## *Creativity Support Tools*
by Ben Shneiderman

Shneiderman provides different models of association that people must engage in to accomplish any given creative task. Some aspects of the discussion that were notable was the level of integration suggested. This is the ongoing goal of several enterprise level applications today including Slack, GSuite, etc. Ideas from creative domains are being applied to all forms of productive output. Furthermore, the goal is as predicted by the author to include complex actions “such as annotate-consult-revise or collect-explore-visualize” (118).  I also found it interesting to learn about Dramatica Pro as an effective creative support tool that augments and assists a screenwriter’s creative process instead of supplanting it. In particular, of the examples given throughout the discussion of the 8 tasks of searching, visualization, relate, thinking, exploring, composition, reviewing, I thought it was the most illustrative of a support tool that centers on and facilitates one of these tasks. The discussion of the limitations of creativity support tools from aversion to due preference for tradition, the social or creative inequality that might be increased due to higher barriers of entry (on the flipside, these are also often lowered), a desire for calm computing, and the potential misuse of the tools also provides a framework for how designers of creative tools might mitigate or consider their possibly detrimental effects. Finally, while Schneiderman provided an overarching framework for creativity support tools (even though he did contextualize the tasks as originating from his observations amongst software developers) when he mentioned “Leonardo’s paint and canvas or Pasteur’s microscopes and beakers” as demonstrative examples where “technology has always been part of the creative process,” the creators were responsible for developing and evolving their own tools as part of their own creative process. To what extent can creative tool development be decoupled from domain knowledge if at all? Perhaps, that’s an argument for equipping individuals with the tools and exposure to be able to tinker with a variety of instruments and maybe the most striking developments will be made by those just seeking to improve the range of their current practices.

## *The Trouble with "Creativity"*
by John Baer

Baer argues that creativity is a skill developed in a particular field and often domain specific by borrowing from Howard Gardner’s multiple intelligences theory. However, I wonder if that expertise is more easily acquired in another domain if one is already creative in a different context. I also wonder if it’s possible to separate creative outcomes from creative processes. That is, is there value in a type of creativity or process that does consistently yield a product or outcome? This article brought up a personal experience I had in Future Problem Solvers, a critical thinking skills challenged which qualifies as a general creativity expansion exercise. The framework used in the challenges is one that I’ve applied in several contexts (first brainstorm 16 challenges applying to a scenario at hand, identify and articulate a key underlying problem, brainstorm 16 solutions, develop a set of criteria to score them, and develop a plan of action. There is also a brainstorming tool that covers different fields to broaden thinking -- Business & Commerce, Economics, Basic Needs, Education, Transportation, Technology, Environment, Recreation, Arts & Aesthetics, Psychological Health, Physical Health, Law & Justice, Ethics & Religion, Social Relationships, Communication, Defense, Government & Politics, and Misc with the idea being to distribute challenges and solutions across these areas). The activity increases one’s ability to engage in divergent thinking. So even if creativity needs to be developed within the context of a particular domain to advance a particular field, I think there are ways to improve problem solving skills that are applicable in any context.  

## *Creativity*
by Beth A. Hennessey an Teresa M. Amabile

In their survey to understand the range and outcomes of investigations on the nature of creativity and environments that foster or nurture it, Hennessey and Amabile call for  a systemic view of creativity that unites the vast range of perspectives they discuss. Given the fragmentation in the literature, I think it’s implausible that a central theory may emerge especially when so many assessments indicate domain or cultural specificity. Additionally, in several of the mentioned studies I was unsure if creativity was being evaluated. I think studies that compare the different processes that individuals or groups undertake may be more comparable. Also, I’m curious about literature that develops the idea of growing or enforcing intrinsic motivation since so many systems for work and study still seem to be rooted in extrinsic motivation. With respect to the discussion around workplaces that are conducive to creative expression, I wonder if the conditions alone are sufficient or if there’s something necessary to spark an outcome and if so, what this might be.
